# Targets

A target can be considered a type of goal or objective.

Think of target as a modifier to a noun (e.g. Target Objective or Target Program).

A target must define its name, and may define its output path, requirements (files and other targets), a list of things to run, and its outputs (files).

Each target has an output path; and an input path (the directory of the Makex file in which the target was defined). 
The target output path is automatically generated, unless it is specified when defining a target.

## Target Requirements

Targets may require other targets and files (including files produced from other targets).

The target(requires=[]) argument is used to define this list.

For example,

<!--

        # expand() function to expand home directories
        expand("~/path/to/file"),
        
  # absolute path to target, a specific variant
  Target("target-name", "//path/to/target", variant={"variant-name": "variant-value"}),
  
-->
```python

target(
    name="example",
    requires=[
        # absolute path to file
        "/absolute/path/to/file",
        
        # relative path to file (from the directory of this makex file)
        "file",

        # relative path to file (from the directory of this makex file)
        "path/to/file",
        
        # File local target, named "target-name" (shorthand)
        ":target-name",
        
        # Target in relative path (path/to/target/Makexfile), named "target-name" (shorthand)
        "path/to/target:target-name",
        
        # Target in workspace path (//path/to/target/Makexfile), named "target-name" (shorthand)
        "//path/to/target:target-name",
    ]
)
```

## Input Files

Any of the target requirements which refer to files are called input files.  

Additionally, if the target refers to any files generated by other targets, those are also input files.

A target with outputs, and without any requirements will always be run.

## Actions

A target may defined a list of "Actions" with the `target(runs=[])` argument. Actions may be shell scripts, 
programs/executables and their arguments, or one of the built in actions.

The list of things to run is executed in order. Any errors during executing will cause makex to stop.

## Outputs

A target may define a list of output files. If any files are generated as part of running the target which are used, they should be specified.
The output files should be specified with paths relative to the target's output path.

If a target has outputs, makex will use hashes, checksums and caching strategies to see if the target needs to be run to reproduce the outputs.

A target with no defined output files will always be run. 
If there are no output files, Makex will be unable to determine if the target is stale; and therefore will consider the target always stale.

Changes to a target definition, it's dependencies, or any of its input files will cause a target to be executed, reproducing any outputs.
